Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Research & Development
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur, INDIA
Phone: 0291-2801121, 1124, 1125 E-Mail:
office_rnd@iitj.ac.in
Advertisement for the post of Director, DIA-CoE, IIT Jodhpur
Date: 24 / Oct / 2025
DRDO has signed MoU with IIT Jodhpur for setting up DRDO Industry Academia Centre of
Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE IITJ) for directed research. The objective of the centre is to
collaborate with the academic researchers/ faculty, start-ups, industries and other institutes
in the country in facilitating and progressing advanced technology research.
DIA-CoE IITJ specifically facilitates and undertakes multidisciplinary directed basic and
applied research in the following research verticals:
1. Applications of Advanced Technologies for Desert Warfare (ATDW)
2. Futuristic Omni Mobility Drones (OMD)
3. AI for Information Warfare and War Gaming Technologies (AIWG)
The search committee is looking for a suitable person for the post of Director, DIA-CoE at IIT
Jodhpur. Director DIA-CoE IITJ is the administrative and executive head. Director, DIA-CoE
IITJ will be appointed on a full-time basis and would be responsible for the smooth
functioning of DIA-CoE IITJ.
Interested persons having the following qualifications can email their detailed CV in PDF
format to the undersigned along with a brief statement of why they feel that they are well
suited to this position. Please send a single PDF file. Attachments, if any, should be a part of
the single PDF file. Please use the subject line: “Application for Director, DIA-CoE, IIT
Jodhpur” in your email. The attached PDF file should be named as <first name>.<last
name>.pdf. Please provide your date of birth in the application. Persons working in full-time
positions with government organizations may also submit a no-objection certificate from the
parent organization.
Essential Qualifications:
 Doctoral degree in Science or Master’s Degree in Engineering or Technology from a
recognized University or Equivalent with 25 years of experience in technology
domains of defence not limited to above mentioned research verticals.
Desirable Qualification:
 The candidate should have a wide-ranging experience and required track record for
carrying out research, collaborative projects, setting up of large research facilities,
strategic research planning and technology transfer.
 The candidate should have exposure to multi-mode projects across labs/ organisations
having Academia interaction and also having awareness in global developments in
relevant areas for overall exposure.
 The candidate should have demonstrated research experience in defence domain in
terms of research and technology development and deployment towards useful
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Research & Development
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur, INDIA
Phone: 0291-2801121, 1124, 1125 E-Mail:
office_rnd@iitj.ac.in
outcomes to defence. Alternatively, the candidate should have strong record of
publications and patents, laboratory/course development and/or other recognized
relevant professional activities leading to defence or related technology development
in the country.
 The candidate should have exposure to both Academic and Industry oriented research
and development preferably in the areas of defence interests having experience in
Industry collaboration towards realization of technology/systems.
Age: The age of the applicant should be below 62 years as on the closing date of receipt of
applications of this advertisement.
Remuneration:
(i) For Retired Central / Sate Govt employee covered under OPS/ NPS
 Old Pension Scheme
(Last drawn salary – basic pension) in line with DoE OM no. F. No. 3-25/2020-E.IIIA dated 09
Dec 2020 as updated time to time
 New Pension Scheme
(Last basic pay- 30% of last basic pay) in line with DoE OM 03-25/2020-E.III(A)/Pt dt. 18 Oct
2023 as updated time to time
(ii) For Non- Govt. employee (Without any Govt Pension benefits)
Rs. 1,75,000 – 2,00,000/- based on experience
Additional Incentives: Accommodation, medical benefits or any other incentives may be
provided by IIT Jodhpur as per the eligibility, IIT Jodhpur norms and availability of
accommodation.
References: Please provide contact details up to 3 references who may be contacted by search
committee.
Duration: Full time position wherein the initial appointment would be for a period of 3 years.
This period can be extended by the competent authority for additional 2 years subject to
performance review. The position may be discontinued before 3 years by either side by giving
a notice of 3 months without assigning reason.
Last date of receiving the application/CV is 07th November 2025.
Sd/-
Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Jodhpur
Email: office_rnd@iitj.ac.in
