
 
 
 
 
 M.Sc. | Mathematics | IIT Jodhpur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A+ 
 A 
 A- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                          हिन्दी  |
                                     
 
                                    Sitemap
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                Home
                             
 
 
 
                                    People
                                 
 
 Recruitment   
 
                                    Faculty Members
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Post Doctoral Fellows
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Technical Staff Members
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Project Staff Members
                                 
 
 Research   
 
                                    Publication
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Ongoing Projects
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Completed Projects
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Collaborations
                                 
 
 Academic Programs   
 
                                    Undergraduate Programs
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Postgraduate Programs
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Doctoral Program
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Curriculum
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Courses
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Program Structure
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Regulations
                                 
 
 Student   
 
                                    PhD Students
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Our Alumni
                                 
 
   
 
                                    Maths Society
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Laboratories
                                 
 
 
 
                                    Contact
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mathematics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    Home
                                 
 
 
 
 
                                    Academic Programs
                                 
 
 
 
                            M.Sc.
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        M.Sc.
                     
 
 
 
 
 M.Sc. in Mathematics   Introduction The classical mathematics provides foundations for analysis of key principles behind modern and emergent technologies, modern mathematics coupled with computational capabilities is opening new avenues for further explorations. M.Sc. (Mathematics) Program at IIT Jodhpur aims at tapping these opportunities by developing workforce specialized in mathematics needed for developing key technologies. The proposed four semester program strives to provide balance between analysis and application of Mathematics. The compulsory courses provide the basic understanding and foundation of mathematics enhancing analytic capabilities of the students. Students can further explore their area of interest with program and open elective courses. The project component spread over last two semesters provides research exposure to the students and provides an opportunity to apply their mathematical skills to solve real-life problems. Students are encouraged to undertake research Summer Internships in Institute of repute, Industry and R&D organizations. Objective of the Programme M.Sc. program in Mathematics at IIT Jodhpur is offered with the objective of tapping opportunities for nurturing motivated students in the frontline areas and well trained workforce for Academia and Industry. The Program also strives to provide a vibrant environment to support independent thinking and developing the spirit of team work. Expected Graduate Attributes (M.Sc.) 1. Skill set to analyze abstract mathematical structures. 2. Understanding about the recent thrust areas in pure and applied mathematics such as algebra, analysis, statistics and computation. 3. Ability to formulate mathematics from computational aspect. 4. Knowledge and capability to develop and apply mathematical models for real life problems. 5. Skill set to understand the abstraction of mathematical structures. 6. Analytical and scientific skill set to pursue higher studies and research in diverse areas of mathematics 7. Ability to express ideas in the written and oral formats Learning Outcome 1. Understanding of fundamental aspects of real, complex and functional analysis. 2. Basic understanding of linear and abstract algebra. 3. Knowledge about basics and use of probability theory, statistics and differential equations 4. Skill set to cater computational aspects using programming techniques 5. Basic understanding of symbolic solution tools such as MATLAB or Mathematica. 6. Demonstrate skills to communicate scientific ideas and/or application systems. 7. Acquire project management skills.       Interested candidates may refer to the detailed curriculum of the program  here . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Important links   
 
 
 CCCD @ IITJ   
 
 
 Recruitment   
 
 
 Correspondence   
 
 
 RTI   
 
 
 Tenders   
 
 
 Techscape   
 
 
 Contact   
 
 
 Old Website   
 
 
 NCCR Portal   
 
 
 How To Reach IITJ   
 
 
 Institute Repository   
 
 
 Donations   
 
 
 Web Policy   
 
 
 Web Information Manager   
 
 
 Feedback   
 
 
 CERT-IN   
 
 
 Help   
 
 
 NIRF   
 
 
 Internal Committee   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Intranet Links   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by  Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.   N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) 
 For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the  WIM . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 12:36 PM 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!! 
 
 arrow_downward ️ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
