School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road,Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan
Phone: (0291) 280 1401/1402; eMail: head_sola@iitj.ac.in/office_sola@iitj.ac.in
Admission to two-year M.Sc. Computational Social Science
(CSS), AY 2026-27
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to M.Sc. program in Computational Social Science
offered by the School of Liberal Arts for the Semester commencing from July 2026.
The M.Sc. Computational Social Science is the flagship program on the new and emerging area of
Computational Social Science, which position itself at the intersection of the social sciences,
mathematics, and computer science. The program is designed to enable and equip the learners to
adopt and master computational approaches to the social sciences, so that they can significantly
contribute to the coming age of AI and data-driven technology.
Detailed information about the Faculty Members associated with School of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur
can be obtained from the Institute website at https://iitj.ac.in/school-of-liberal-arts/
A. Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form online:
Regular: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=46
Sports Quota: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=53
For admission to the First Semester of the AY 2026-27 commencing in July 2026, this online link will
remain active till 10th March 2026
Applicants belonging to GEN-UR, GEN-EWS, and OBC categories are required to pay a processing fee of
Rs.300 online, while SC, ST, and PD applicants need to pay Rs.150 during the submission of their
application forms and it non refundable. It may be noted that there is no provision to edit the
Application Form in the ERP Portal of the Institute after the final submission of the Application Form.
Application Form with incomplete/ incorrect details will be outrightly rejected.
In case of any query with respect to online application, applicants may contact the ERP
team on Email: erp@iitj.ac.in, phone number: 0291-2801176
Other general queries between 10.00 am to 5.00 pm, on working days, may be directed at
the following.
1) Office of School of Liberal Arts: 0291-280-1402; email: office_sola@iitj.ac.in
2) Sola Faculty: Dr. Soni: 0291-280-1429; email: soni@iitj.ac.in
https://www.iitj.ac.in/admission-postgraduate-programs/en/Advertisements
1
Applicants shortlisted for the admission process will be required to bring the final submitted
application form duly signed along with a copy of all educational testimonials at the time of
admission.
B. Eligibility for Admission
The eligibility criteria prescribed below are the absolute minimum. The relaxation for SC/ST/PD
candidates in the qualifying degree marks is as per Ministry of Education rules, as amended from
time to time.
Qualifying Degree Marks obtained in Qualifying Degree
A minimum of Bachelor’s degree or an equivalent At least 60% marks or 6.0/10 Cumulative
qualification with any of the following subjects: Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative
Economics, Sociology, Psychology, Political Science, Grade Point Average (CGPA) for
Computer Science, Mathematics, Statistics, all GEN/EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PD)
Engineering disciplines awarded by any university
established by an Act of central or state legislature
in India, or by other educational institutions
established by the act of Parliment, or recognized as
a deemed university under section 3 of UGC act,
1956. Additionally, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent
must entail a minimum of three years of education
following completion of higher secondary schooling
(10+2) or its equivalent. [Mathematics up to Class
XII is desirable].
C. Reservation Policy
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the Ministry of
Education, Government of India, as amended from time to time.
D. Sports Quota
Two supernumerary seats under the regular admission category shall be given under sports quota. The
Sports Quota will be available to only those sportspersons who can produce certification about
securing top three positions (in team or individual events) in national or international tournaments
approved by SAI or other recognized sports federations or who were part of national team at junior or
senior level in tournaments approved by these institutions. This will include both outdoor and indoor
sports. See Annexure -I for details and link for sports quota applications.
https://www.iitj.ac.in/admission-postgraduate-programs/en/Advertisements
2
E. Important Dates
Activity Date
Opening of the application form 02 February, 2026
Closing date of application form 10th March, 2026
Announcement of Shortlisting result for test and interview 20th March, 2026
Exam date (Offline admission test and interview)* 11th April, 2026
Declaration of final results End April 2026
* Candidate has to bring all educational and other certificates to attend the written test
and/or interview for verification. In case of any discrepancy, the candidate will not be
allowed to attend the written test and/or interview.
F. Important Note on Eligibility and Admission Cancellation
“IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any candidate at any stage of the
admission process or at any stage of the program, if it is found that the candidate does not fulfill the
prescribed eligibility criteria as per the official advertisement or the candidate has provided
incorrect/incomplete information in the Application Form. The decision of the Institute in such matters
will be final and will be binding on the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject to the jurisdiction of
the Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only."
https://www.iitj.ac.in/admission-postgraduate-programs/en/Advertisements
3
Annexure I
Advertisement for Admission under Sports Quota in M.Sc. Computational SociaL Sciences, AY
2026-2027
A. Guidelines for Admission to the Seats Reserved under Sports Quota for M.Sc. Programs
are as follows:
• Two supernumerary seats under regular admission category shall be given to sportspersons.
• The Sports Quota will be available to only those sportspersons who can produce certification
about securing top three positions (in team or individual events) in national or international
tournaments approved by SAI or other recognized sports federations or who were part of
national team at junior or senior level in tournaments approved by these institutions. This will
include both outdoor and indoor sports.
• Age relaxation will be as per Government of India norms for such candidates.
• It is mandatory to meet the minimum eligibility criteria as per the program requirements.
• The shortlisting will be based on the “interview and/or written examination” and “sports
certificate(s)”. The candidate to submit the highest performance from the below categories of
sports (during the last five years from the last date of application) and below
certificate/awards will not be clubbed during shortlisting:
• A person getting any of the first three positions in the Olympic/World
Game/Commonwealth Game/World Cup Tournaments /Asian Games.
• A person representing India in the above-mentioned games/tournaments.
• A person representing India in any other official matches abroad and within the country
approved by SAI or other recognized sports federations.
The list of sports which qualifies for admission under Sports Quota, vide notification No.DOPT-
1668767575965 Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions
Department of Personnel and Training, ESTT. (Estt. D) dated 18 November 2022 is as follows.
Sl.No. Name of Sport Sl.No. Name of Sport
1. Archery 34. Mallakhamb
2. Athletics 35. Motor Sports
3. Atya – Patya 36. Net Ball
4. Badminton 37. Para Sports
(for sports discipline included in Paralympics
and Asian Para Games)
5. Ball-Badminton 38. Pencak Silat
6. Baseball 39. Polo
7. Basketball 40. Powerlifting
8. Billiards & Snookers 41. Shooting
https://www.iitj.ac.in/admission-postgraduate-programs/en/Advertisements
4
9. Body-Building 42. Shooting Ball
10. Boxing 43. Roll Ball
11. Bridge 44. Roller Skating
12. Carrom 45. Rowing
13. Chess 46. Rugby
14. Cricket 47. Sepak Takraw
15. Cycling 48. Soft Ball
16. Cycle Polo 49. Soft Tennis
17. Deaf Sports 50. Squash
18. Equestrian 51. Swimming
19. Fencing 52. Table Tennis
20. Football 53. Taekwondo
21. Golf 54. Tenni-Koit
22. Gymnastics 55. Tennis
23. Handball 56. Tenpin Bowling
24. Hockey 57. Triathlon
25. Ice-Hockey 58. Tug-of-war
26. Ice-Skating 59. Volleyball
27. Ice-Skiing 60. Weightlifting
28. Judo 61. Wushu
29. Kabaddi 62. Wrestling
30. Karate 63. Yachting
31. Kayaking & 64. Tennis Ball Cricket
Canoeing
32. Kho – Kho 65. Yogasana
33. Kudo
https://www.iitj.ac.in/admission-postgraduate-programs/en/Advertisements
5
ANNEXURE-II
UNDERTAKING FOR ACHIEVEMENTS IN SPORTS
I, (name), Son/Daughter/Wife of Shri
, born on
of
(address) hereby solemnly declare and affirm as follows:
1. That as Sportsman/Sportswoman in (name of discipline), I have
represented the team(s) in the competition(s) on date(s)
and also of named position(s) as indicated in the table
below.
Sl.No. Sports Disciplines Team Name of the Venue/D Position Secured
Represente Competition & ate (1, 2, 3)
d Year
2. That the certificate(s) mentioned above as produced by me in support of the above are
authentic. (Deleted the repetition)
3. I understand that if the information/documents supplied by me are found to be false or
incorrect or forged, my admission will stand canceled.
(Signature of the applicant)
https://www.iitj.ac.in/admission-postgraduate-programs/en/Advertisements
6
