Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur | IIT Jodhpur

Office of Academics Affairs

Office of Executive Education

Engineering Science

Admissions

Programs

Admission to Postgraduate Programs

Admission Links

Resources

Central Library

Digital Infrastructure & Automation

Primary Health Center

AIOT Fab Facility

CRF Facility

Office Of Research & Development

Company Oversight

Students

Office of Students

Student Wellbeing Committee

Placements, Training & Internships

Alumni

Faculty

Faculty Positions

FAQs: Applicants

Scholars-in-Residence

Adjunct Faculty Members

Visiting Faculty Members

Why Pursue a Career @ IIT Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

About IIT Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was established in 2008, to foster technology education and research in India. The Institute is committed to technological thought and action to benefit the economic development of India. Scholarship in teaching and learning; Scholarship in research and creative accomplishments; and relevance to Industry are three driving forces for us at IIT Jodhpur. IIT Jodhpur functions from its sprawling residential Permanent Campus of 852 acres on National Highway 65, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus is meticulously planned and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep.

Discover More about IITJ

Highlight

Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method

Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets

2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nano architectonics and Recent Progresses

MBA Admission 2026-28: CAT Cut-off for the Personal Interview

MBA 2026–28 Admissions date extended!
Extension Notice for the post of Registrar, Advt. No: 62.
( 155 KB )

Advertisement for the post of Registrar (on Tenure/Deputation), IIT Jodhpur
Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) at IIT Jodhpur ( 333 KB )

Latest News

View All News

Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal (Impact Factor = 13)

Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal

Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC)

View All Announcements

Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) at IIT Jodhpur

List of Selected Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II

List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II (December 2025)

Event

View All Events

Mar

7

2026

National Safety Week, 07-08 March 2026

Feb

2026

Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications

Mar

21

2026

Skill Development Program on MATLAB/Simulink and Software-Defined Radio (SDR)-Based...

Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar

Chairman, BoG

Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal

Director

Student Life at IIT Jodhpur

Student life at IIT Jodhpur is vibrant and enriching, offering a perfect blend of academic learning and extracurricular activities. With a focus on holistic development, the institute provides numerous opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents beyond the classroom.
The institute also emphasizes the importance of community service and social responsibility, encouraging students to engage in various outreach programs and initiatives that benefit society.

Discover More about Student Life at IITJ

Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM