Dr. Debasis Das Search this site Embedded Files Skip to main content Skip to navigation Dr. Debasis Das Home Publications Thesis Supervision Honors and Awards Research Projects Dr. Debasis Das Home Publications Thesis Supervision Honors and Awards Research Projects More Home Publications Thesis Supervision Honors and Awards Research Projects Biosketch : Dr. Debasis Das is currently working as an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and Associate Faculty at the School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE), as well as Coordinator of IoT and Applications (Inter-disciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. His research interests include Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs), Blockchain, the Internet of Things (IoT), Machine Learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Quantum Technology. Dr. Das published 170 research papers in top international journals( Like IEEE Transactions, ACM Transactions, etc) and top B/A/A* Conferences. Dr. Das has 23 sponsored projects and 2 consultancy projects to his credit. He has been awarded the Early Career Research (ECR) Award, BRICS Young Scientist Award, Young Researcher Award-2024, DST-NSF Project Award 2025, NSTC Research Project Award 2025 from Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), MoE, NSF, and NSTC, respectively. He has many research collaborations with premier institutions in India and different universities across the globe. He has been engaged in different academic activities inside and outside the Institute. He has supervised 10 Ph.D. students, and 10 are currently pursuing their theses. He has also supervised more than 50 M.E./M.Tech. thesis. He is a senior member of IEEE and VTS and a professional member of ACM. Research Interest: Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks(VANETs), Security, Blockchain, Internet of Things(IoT), Smart Cities, Intelligent Transportation Systems(ITS), Machine Learning(ML), and Artificial Intelligence(AI). Teaching Interest: Core Computer Science Courses and Elective Courses (Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks, Security and Applications, Blockchain Technology, Internet of Things(IoT), and Machine Learning) My research focuses mainly on Design and Development for an Intelligent Society . I am looking forward to focusing on research areas that can extend the availability and usefulness of technology and its advancement to our society directly. I believe that this will certainly enhance their quality of living. I am also working on the applications of B lockchain T echnology, Internet of Things (IoT), Machine Learning, and Artificial Int elligence to socially relevant issues. I am actively looking for self-motivated PhD and Postdoctoral Scholars who are broadly interested in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs), Internet of Things(IoT), Security, B lockchain T echnology, Internet of Thing(IoT), Machine Learning, and Artificial Int elligence, and are willing to explore topics in Federated Learning, Edge Computing, and distributed computing. Within the scope of these larger fields, I am interested in Vehicular Edge Computing and Recommendation Systems . If you are interested in working with me on any of these topics, please send me an email!!!! . ( Email: debasis@iitj.ac.in ) Email: debasis@iitj.ac.in Department of CSE IIT Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. VANETs Lab @ IIT Jodhpur Google Scholar profile : https://scholar.google.co.in/citations?user=_MjXvxQAAAAJ&hl=en Google Sites Report abuse Page details Page updated Google Sites Report abuse