Deepak Mishra Search this site Embedded Files Skip to main content Skip to navigation Deepak Mishra Home Patents & Publication Projects Teaching Students Other Contact Deepak Mishra Associate Professor Computer Science and Engineering IIT Jodhpur My journey began in 2010 with the Healthcare R&D team at Siemens Information Systems Ltd. I was fortunate to work with some of the best mentors on complex industrial problems, which sparked a lifelong commitment to medical research. This foundation led me to IIT Delhi for doctoral research in medical imaging and ultimately to my current role as an Associate Professor at IIT Jodhpur . Currently, I focus on both fundamental and applied research in deep learning, medical image analysis, and responsible AI. I have openings for PhD and project positions in my group, and I encourage students with a strong research aptitude to reach out with their updated resumes. My research group, Medical AI Systems (MAISys) at IIT Jodhpur, is dedicated to the development and deployment of AI-driven medical technologies. For more details, please visit MAISys website . Education PhD in Computer Technology (Electrical Engineering), IIT Delhi, 2019 M. Tech in Computer Technology, 2013, IIT Delhi B. Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering, Indian Institute of Information Technology Jabalpur, 2010 Professional Activities Area Chair: MICCAI 2025, 2026 . Reviewer/PC Member: MICCAI, ICML, AAAI, CVPR, ECCV, ICPR. Organizing Committee Member: Sun Pharma Science Foundation National Symposium on Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare 2024. News [Mar 2026] Invited to talk about our works on "Reliable AI Models for Medical Imaging Applications" in 31st Annual Conference of Northern Chapter, Association of Medical Physicists of India (NC-AMPICON 2026). [Mar 2026] Achieved mentorship milestone. My first Ph.D. student, Azad Singh, successfully defended his thesis. [ Feb 202 6 ] Indian patent granted for " System and Method for Robot Assisted Echocardiography " . [ Feb 202 6 ] Our work " Correctness-Aware Knowledge Distillation for Enhanced Student Learning " is accepted in TMLR . [ Jan 202 6 ] Promoted to Associate Professor position at IIT Jodhpur. [Dec 2025] Our work " An Integrated Multi-modal Data Acquisition System for Ultrasound Imaging" is accepted in IEEE Sensors Letters. [Nov 2025] Our work "Federated Model Synchronization for Diagnostic Redefinition through a Novel Selective Parameter Unlearning" is accepted at WACV 2026. [Sep 2025] Our work "Guide2Heart: Proximity Guidance for Standard Echocardiographic View" is recognized with the Best Poster Runner-Up Award at the ASMUS Workshop at MICCAI 2025. [Aug 2025] Our work "Beyond Accurate Distillation: Calibrated Knowledge Distillation for Reliable Predictions" is accepted in IEEE Transactions on Artificial Intelligence. [Jul 2025] Our work "AR2FL: Anomaly-Resistant Robust Framework for Federated Learning" is accepted in IEEE Transactions on Artificial Intelligence. [Jul 2025] Our work "Scale-Aware Adaptive Feature Quantization for Robust Medical Image Representation Learning" is accepted at ECAI-2025. [Jun 2025] Our work "Self-supervised Contextual Representations of Chest X-ray Images" is accepted in IEEE Signal Processing Letters . [Jun 2025] Indian patent granted for " Adaptive Frame Resolution Based Image System for Always-On Imaging Applications " . [May 2025] Our work " Fine-Grained Rib Fracture Diagnosis with Hyperbolic Embeddings " is accepted (early accept) at MICCAI 2025 . [May 2025] Invited as a Distinguished Speaker in FDP on "AI in Medical Imaging and Diagnostics: Current Trends and Challenges" at NIT Jaipur. [Apr 2025] Our work " FLAME " is accepted in IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational Intelligence . [Apr 2025] Indian patent granted for " Automated Personalized Assistance and Monitoring System for People with Special Needs " . [Jan 2025] Our work " ViT Coupled Efficient CMOS Image Sensor with Sparse Acquisition and Patch Selection" is accepted at ISCAS 2025. [Nov 2024] Speaking at Sun Pharma Science Foundation National Symposium on “ Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare ” . Ph.D. Students Mayank Kundalwal Ishan Mishra Gajendra Singh Aiman Farooq Sagar Shamanna M.Tech. Students Arkya Jyoti Bagchi Ritul Jangir Shantanu Sharma Suvigya Sharma Chirugudu Noah Sujiv Raj Dwivedi Jyoti Rajeshbhai Eshani Ravindra Sawant Mangalton Okram B.Tech. Students Maulik Snehal Desai Shikhar Dave Students Achievements Aiman Farooq received the NeurIPS scholar and WIML grant to attend NeurIPS 2025. Gajendra Singh received the best poster runner-up award at ASMUS-MICCAI2025. Aiman Farooq received the MICCAI Registration and Travel grant to attend MICCAI 2025. Azad Singh and Aiman Farooq received the WACV DEI grant to attend WACV2025. Aiman receives the IndoML travel grant to present her work at the Graduate Forum IndoML2024. Azad Singh receives two grants to attend MICCAI 2024 MICCAI RISE Registration Grant Anusandhan National Research Foundation (ANRF) Grant. Ishan Mishra is visiting the University of Buffalo (SUNY Buffalo) as research intern during 2024 - 25. Aiman received the CVPR-DEI and WiCV grant to attend CVPR 2024. Design project by Aditya Soni (UG student) awarded 2023 Campus Innovation Prize at IIT Jodhpur. Work by UG students Riyanshu Jain, Dhruv Viradiya, and Divyam Patel, "Knowledge Distillation with Ensemble Calibration" was selected as one of the winning entries of the UG Research Day – 2023 in CSE Department. Report abuse Report abuse