Mechanical Engineering | IIT Jodhpur

Mechanical Engineering

Welcome to the Department of Mechanical Engineering

The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is devoted to quality engineering education and pursuits the excellence in research. It is dedicated to preparing students to face the emerging challenges faced by society. The vision of the Department is to translate its research and to innovate in pedagogy to enable ignited young minds to find technological solutions for upcoming challenges. The Department offers B. Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of things (IoT), Smart Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS).

At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of the current activities of the Department. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, nanomaterials, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermo-fluids, fluid-structure interaction, etc. to name a few. Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, Smart scientific computing techniques, high-performance computing, applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring mechanical engineering know-how. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the Department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills.

The department has active collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab, TVS Motor Company to name a few. The department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R&D organizations since its inception.

Technology Tracks

Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0
Multiscale Manufacturing
Processing of Novel Materials
Fluid Thermal System Design
Multiphase Flows
Energy and Sustainability
Solid Mechanics and Design
Vibration and Acoustics
Robotics and Mobility Systems
Aerodynamics

Various Tracks

Mechanical Engineering Building

Latest News

View all news

List of shortlisted candidates for the written test/interview for PhD, AY 2025-26 Semester II (Jan 2026)

The Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, invites applications for the PhD program for the semester commencing in July 2025 (Application deadline 26 June 2025)

List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and Interview for M.Tech. in Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies Admissions Under Different Categories

Thermofluids Engineering

The Thermofluids Engineering division focuses on research in fluid dynamics, heat transfer, energy systems, multiphase flow...

Mechanical Design

The Mechanical Design section focuses on cutting-edge research and development in the following research areas...

Manufacturing

The Manufacturing section focuses on innovative research and technological advancements in the following research areas...

Latest Events

View all events

Jul

2025

AIR 2025( Advances in Robotics) 7th International Conference of The Robotics Society

Dec

17

2025

23 ISME International Conference on Recent Advances in Mechanical Engineering

Dec

26

2024

RAISE-2024 Recent Advances in Sustainable Energy

Dec

20

2023

FMFP-2023 Conference: The 10th International and 50th National Conference

Dec

9

2025

The 28th National and 6th International IHMTC-2025 Conference

Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:34 PM