Why Pursue a Career @ IIT Jodhpur?
There are many reasons to choose IIT Jodhpur to build a career. A few salient ones are:
(1) Scholarship through teaching-learning and research-creation drive us. Faculty Members
pursue their own teaching and research interests. IIT Jodhpur invested significantly
and acquired state of the art material characterization sophisticated instrumentation.
(2) IIT Jodhpur has chosen to make select impactful technological contributions to the
nation. This umbrella technology development approach involves end-to-end work of
Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students with backgrounds in Sciences,
Humanities & Social Sciences, and Engineering. The select domains include:
(a) Arid Zone Technologies: Solar Energy, Water, and Smart Buildings;
(b) Critical Technologies: Materials, Components and Systems;
(c) Health Care Technologies: Diagnostic devices, and Biological solutions to health
care; and
(d) Automotive Technologies: Commercial Vehicles
(3) In July 2014, IIT Jodhpur launched all new Industry Immersion B.Tech. Program - a
flagship technical educational program that will enable IIT Jodhpur Students and
Faculty Members to keep meet the needs of Technology Industry and Nation. It is a
blend of classroom instructions in Academia and shop floor experience in the Industry,
through immersion inside the Technology Industry. Learning-by-doing, experiential
and cooperative learning, working on live assignments under the tutelage of industry
professionals, and engaging faculty members and students in joint R&D projects with
Industry, are some of the key features of Blended B.Tech. Program. This model is
being actively considered for Masters and Doctoral Programs also.
(4) Jodhpur is secluded adequately from the burden of a mega polis or a metropolitan
city, and hence offers the much needed quiet to do focused academic work. Also, the
city of Jodhpur is itself an active tourist city that is friendly, but quiet.
(5) IIT Jodhpur is working towards a state-of-the-art permanent campus located ~20 km
away from the center of the city.
(6) City of Jodhpur is not a big city. With just about 12.7 Lakh Population (a sizeable part
of it is through Military and Paramilitary Forces), the city is calm and friendly. One
striking feature of the city is that there is No Traffic Jam at any time of the day in any
part of the city!!
(7) Jodhpur is well connected by air and trains to Delhi and Mumbai, and by train and
road to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Udaipur, Jaisalmer, and Ahmedabad.
(8) The city of Jodhpur has a number of other prominent academic and R&D
organizations in addition to the Jai Narayan Vyas University (formerly Jodhpur
University). These include:
(i) All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur,
(ii) National Law University, Jodhpur,
(iii) National Institute of Fashion Technology, Jodhpur,
(iv) Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, Jodhpur,
(v) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur,
(vi) Footwear Design and Development Institute, Jodhpur, and
(vii) Defence Laboratory, Jodhpur (DRDO).
Of these, the first six are all new, and there are opportunities for appointment of
Spouse of a Faculty Member, based on his/her qualifications and relevant experience.
(9) Jodhpur is a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially with the High Court
of the State of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has ample professional
opportunities for spouses with backgrounds in these subjects.
Some things we do for our new Faculty Members
The Institute will:
(1) Provide transit accommodation, immediately on arrival;
(2) Reimburse
(a) Telephone bills up to Rs. 1,500 per month,
(b) Medical expenses of self and dependents,
(c) Education allowance for first two children up to Class 12, and
(d) Relocation expenses up to Rs.1.5 Lakhs from any place in India or abroad;
(3) Offer
(a)Research Initiation Grant within the initial period of joining, up to Rs. 25 Lakhs for
Faculty Members in Sciences and Engineering, and up to Rs. 5 Lakhs to those in
Humanities and Social Sciences; and
(b) Cumulative Professional Development Allowance of Rs. 3 Lakhs once every 3
years;
(4) Contribute towards New Pension Scheme of Government of India;
(5) Reward up to Rs 10,000/- per month for three years for INSA Young Scientist and
INAE Young Engineer awardees; and
(6) Facilitate soft loan.
